How People With Disabilities
Use Digital Technology
Physical Disabilities
Physical disabilities affect how people move,
including an inability to move,
limited mobility,
a lack of coordination,
tremors and involuntary movement,
pain that impedes movement,
as well as missing and non-typical limbs.
People who use a mouse might
have difficulty with fine motor control.
For example, tremors, non-typical joints,
pain, or fatigue can prevent people
from being able to select small targets,
such as small links, buttons and controls.
Websites and apps with large clickable
areas around checkboxes, radio buttons,
and other controls, are easier to use
for people with limited mobility
and reduced dexterity.
Other people use speech input instead.
While speech input uses the
keyboard interface in the background,
websites and apps that are programmed and
designed with consideration for speech input
are more effective.
For example, when the name of a button in
the code matches the name displayed visually,
people using speech input
know what they need to say
to click that button.
Click send email.
Some people do not use a mouse,
touch screen, or other pointing devices.
They might use specialised
keyboards with larger keys,
or more space between the keys.
Some use tools such as a
mouthstick or headstick to type.
Websites and apps that make functions
visibly clear with active focus styles
and usable with keyboard only
are easier to use for
people with physical disabilities.
Regardless of the input device used,
websites and apps that provide sufficient
time to type and to complete tasks
are easier to use for people
with physical disabilities
because it might take people longer
to navigate and type,
and to correct typing mistakes.
Providing clear headings and instructions
helps people to understand the tasks
and reduces the time
needed to complete them.
This includes instructions for
forms and functionality,
as well as error messages and dialogues.
Finally, websites and apps that work in
both portrait and landscape orientation
are easier to use for people
who have their devices mounted to their
wheelchair, desk, or bed.
You can help make technology
accessible to me.
Accessibility: it's about people.
For more information
from the Web Accessibility Initiative
on How People With Disabilities
Use Digital Technology
visit w3.org/WAI/people